---
layout: post
title: "2023-10-05 Update"
tags: update
date: 2023-10-05 19:00:00 -0500
---

## Work Stuff

I'm leaving [Suffolk Law School's Legal Innovation and Technology (LIT) Lab](https://suffolklitlab.org/) after about 3 years!
It's been a wonderful experience, and I've learned an incredible amount about access to justice, and the courts.
I am not leaving the docassemble and legal tech field however, as I'll be contracting with a few organizations:

* I'll be working with Michigan Legal Help on their docassemble efforts, doing lots more docassemble interview crafting and e-filing work.
* I'll continue consulting with [Lemma Legal](https://lemmalegal.com/) on their many efforts.
* technically, I'm not even leaving the LIT Lab, as I'll be still working with them to improve judicial e-filing

Luckily, I was able to launch Massachusetts' first third-party EFSP before I left!
We are now the first organization that isn't Tyler Technologies that can file into the Massachusetts courts!
This has been a big push in a lot of different ways, and much of the behind the scenes work is thanks to Paul Tuttle at the Massachusetts Appeals Court, as well as my colleagues David Colarusso and Quinten Steenhuis.

## Personal

### Doing

Wedding planning is now is full gear, and takes up most of my free time.
I recently hacked on an old rotary phone, using [cell2jack](https://www.cell2jack.com/) to let it make calls, and it'll serve as the guest book for our wedding! Maybe I'll make a quick post about it, but it's not that much more complicated than that.

### Listening To

Lots of jazz fusion!
I recently got my hands on a cheap saxophone, so I've been learning to play that, and have been polishing my piano playing skills as well, which means I'm listening to a lot
of my favorite sub-genre of jazz, jazz fusion.

<table class="listening-to">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style="width: 10%">&nbsp;</th>
      <th style="width: 40%">Song</th>
      <th style="width: 50%">Artist</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    {% song_table --song="YYZ" --album="Moving Pictures (2011 Remaster)" --artist="Rush" --img_id=ab67616d00001e0272833c1ae3343cbfb4617073 %}
    {% song_table --song="Elegant People" --artist="Black Market" --album="Weather Report" --img_id=ab67616d00001e02f733433f86d4acd857c4cbc2 %}
    {% song_table --song="TRAVELERS" --artist="T-SQUARE" --album="ADVENTURES" --img_id=ab67616d00001e022eaaafa220a507d7bb60bec8 %}
    {% song_table --song="Topaz" --artist="Journey" --album="Journey" --img_id=ab67616d00001e0232e0eceec3aa14996428af51 %}
    {% song_table --bandcamp --song="Work This Time" --artist="King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard" --album="Live at Bonnaroo '22" --song_url=https://kinggizzard.bandcamp.com/track/work-this-time-live-at-bonnaroo-22  --img_id=https://f4.bcbits.com/img/a3121529005_10.jpg %}
    {% song_table --bandcamp --song="Supercell" --artist="King Gizzard & The Lizard Wizard" --album="PetroDragonic Apocalypse; or, Dawn of Eternal Night: An Annihilation of Planet Earth and the Begnning of Merciless Damnation" --song_url=https://kinggizzard.bandcamp.com/track/supercell --img_id=https://f4.bcbits.com/img/a2805471381_16.jpg %}
  </tbody>
</table>

### Gaming

I finished Pikmin 4, which was an absolute treat. The visuals, the sound design, the atmosphere, and the little dandori challenges were all super fun to play. The post game lasts such as long time as well, and really makes it all worth it.