---
layout: post
title: "Contribution and Credit"
tags: software culture video-games open source
---

From Hbombs Roblox video, a lot of the core argument comes down to the idea that credit for something you've done is really important, not just say the high level, but specific details of "the thing" as well.

credit in work like this can be strange; each individual is usually necessary, and there is never a sole individual  responsible for an entire work, i.e. the artour in films and works like video games is imo wrong, and usually happens bc pol remember 1 name easier than like 10. sometimes, you can abstract a group of people, like From Software, or a band name like Casiopea. That too immediately falls apart though, even in the smaller case of bands; is it Casiopea in 1983, or 1989, or 2013? it's even less useful for large corps, where the personnel on specific teams changes at least 3 times a year. End credits of a game are very important then, as they list everyone involved, but even then they aren't perfect (metroid's remake credits not listing everything). So abstraction doesn't work well at all, the only other way is even more detailed contribution credits than even end credits themselves.

this is one of the reasons why i was drawn to Open source software, and git specifically. Each commit has an author, and you can see exactly who wrote that commit. In groups, it immediately becomes clear who changed what, showing what parts of the system everyone specializes in and is the most knowledgeable about. While that's a part of git everywhere, the important part is that it's open; at my old company, Realtime Robotics, you'd probably be able to see the parts of the code I wrote (if they're still being used, they may have done a 3rd total re-write of everything since I left, lol). But no one outside the company will ever be able to know; the software is still copyrighted by the company as a whole, and only those inside with the source have individual commits and contributor list. Not to mention the contributors of the all of the dependencies like ROS, the CMake build system, etc.

So the openness of everything is also critical; you can get all contributors, and what you actually did. It's not always perfect tho, and at the end of the day, it just becomes a social thing; who gets the credit for a pair or mob programming session? Do you use co-authored by metadata in git? Are you trying to reduce "wrote the most code" to "did the most work" incorrectly, like in the numpy black hole work? Is the code you write autogenerated by another tool that should really be credited instead? And the kicker: git just handles code; not design, not docs (sometimes), not user research, not project management, not testing, etc.